the Arctic millions of square kilometers
of empty ice polar bears are normally
solitary you might think that just
finding a partner in this desolate
landscape would be the challenge but
they have an excellent sense of smell
and can detect another bear from over
the horizon
male bears can spend weeks tracking the
scent of a female who's ready to mate
they sniff closely to size each other up
she'll raise her Cubs alone devoting
herself to them for two even three years
it's a huge commitment of time and
effort so it's vital to pick a male who
will provide strong and healthy genes
for her offspring it looks as though
she's going to put this potential suitor
through his paces she needs him up and
down the slopes it's as if she's testing
his fitness they start to play
courtship is one of the few times that
adult animals play together
this slope is rather steep for the
heavier male
it's no good he can't quite manage it
but she seems to have decided that he
might be the one
whilst he seems to have lost interest
it's her turn to do the chasing and
she's got a few tricks up her sleeve
that was enough to entice him up again